All right guys in this video we're going to take a look at CSX variables also called Custom properties.
K so in documentation you might see them as custom properties.
But most people call them variables because that's what they are they're just place holders for values.
So let's create a new file called 06 underscore variables dot h t a mouth and we'll put in our boiler
plate.
It's a C assess
variables and put our style
to just close up and in the body.
We're not going to have too much here.
We're going to put a header and the header will have an H one.
We'll just say See assess variables and outside the header let's do a container and it's going to have
to Divs.
So Class of box it's to a class of box dash and then money sign.
And then let's times that by two and enter and each one is going to have let's do an h three we'll just
say heading paragraph will do Lorem 15.
Doesn't really matter what the content is it's going to copy the H3 in the paragraph and put that in
this div as well.
And let's just move this back and open this with live server.
So it should look like this and we're gonna add some some base styling here before we get into variables.
And I know a lot of this stuff is repetitive but it's good to keep typing it out because you get more
familiar with things so we're going to add a reset of so margin zero padding zero and the body.
Want to make it look somewhat decent.
So we're gonna do a font family of Ariel which Ariel was the default font for browsers not Times New
Roman because it just looks horrible or some kind of sans serif font.
So let's do a line height of one point four and let's do a background of light grey.
All right.
So I'm gonna save this now before I move on to styling this other stuff.
I'm gonna show you how to create a variable.
Now you need to define a scope for your variables.
Well actually you can define them right inside here if we wanted to.
I could go right above and I could say dash dash.
This is how you format the variable dash dash and then name it.
So I could say let's say light dash color and set it to F for three times like that and then I could
use the variable right here by using the VAR keyword opening up some parentheses and then putting in
dash dash light color you're seeing V.S. code will actually get a dropdown with with the options.
And if I say we get the same result.
OK.
So this is how you can define a variable.
Now usually you're not going to define it right in the same.
You know right where you're using it that kind of defeats the purpose.
I like to use variables so I have a single place in my CSA in my style sheet that I can update like
primary colors and stuff like that.
So what I'm going to do is just take this just cut that out and then I'm going to go up here.
I'm going to define a scope to define my variable.
Now since I used it in body I could just do body like that and then put in the variable but I'm going
to put it in the root.
What's called the root scope.
So we do colon root.
OK.
So any variable that you create in the root scope you can use anywhere in the style sheet.
So if I save this you can see that this still works.
All right.
Now what I usually use variable variables for is primary color secondary color and then you usually
have some kind of light grey at least at least when I build sites you eyes I have some kind of light
gray sometimes a dark gray sometimes a really like a black almost and I put these into variables because
I might use them over and over and then if you ever want to change it you don't have to go to each instance
of that color and change it.
So let's create a primary color and for the primary color I'm just going to do steel blue.
OK and then let's do a secondary color because usually you'll have kind of a color palette to your UI
or your Web site.
And I'm gonna do sky blue OK so have a primary color a secondary color and a light color and then we're
gonna go down here and add some some more styling so let's go header and for the header I'm going to
set a background color and I want to set that to the variable of primary color.
OK so if I save that we get the color.
I'm also gonna change the text color to white.
And then let's see.
Let's let's text the line to the center and then I'm going to add a bottom border action going to go
right here and I'm going to say border bottom let's do five pixels and then I'm going to use the secondary
color.
So var dash dash secondary color solid and we'll save.
All right.
Now let's do the container the container is actually going to be a flex box.
So we'll see a display flex that has two items in it.
So those are gonna be side by side and then in the container I'm going to add let's see.
Let's do margin auto and then let's add a max with and this is some.
This is something I may put in a variable as well because if you want to for some reason change the
the width of the the interface or the Web site you can easily do that up here.
So I'm actually going to go right here and say Max width and let's set it to eleven hundred pixels and
then we can set that right here by saying var dash dash Max with.
Now if I save it I shouldn't be able to go past eleven hundred pixels and if I wanted to change it I
could just very easily just change it to like 960 and I can see it gets it gets thinner.
OK.
Now the boxes I want to have the the primary color as well so let's go dot box and let's say background
color and we'll set that to var dash dash primary color and let's do the same thing with the border
bottom
so.
Border bottom we're going to set to five pixels.
We're going to use the secondary color and solid k.
Let's change the color to white.
You could even put the text color in a variable if you wanted to.
You can put whatever you want into variables but sometimes it just doesn't make sense.
It really makes sense when you're gonna be reusing it or if it's something major like the width of the
layout or something like that at least in my opinion and let's just add some padding here.
Let's say one room margin one room and we'll save that and you can see that it has the same colors as
the header.
All right.
So what's great about this is if I want to change that let's pretend that this is a whole Web site and
we're using these variables all over the place.
So we have like seven eight nine instances of the primary secondary color like color.
We can now easily change this.
OK so if we wanted to change it to like I don't know dark dark gray and then maybe like light gray or
something like that that might look a little weird but we'll save it.
And now the whole thing changes.
So it's very convenient to use variables for colors and then things like widths and in layout and stuff
like that.
OK.
So another thing that maybe we can do is is the width of the Flex boxes.
So if we actually go up here and let's set dash dash box one with we'll set that to one and then dash
dash box 2 with we'll set that to 2 and then let's add the box one class and we'll say what are we doing
here raising flex so we can save our dash dash box one with.
Copy that down.
Changes to two blocks two ends and save up what I do.
Just delete everything and save.
Now you can see that there is a different layout here.
And now we can easily change this if I wanted to do maybe three here save that that gets that gets bigger.
If I wanted to do maybe one in three here now I can easily change the layout with these variables.
Now everything is in all the variables are defined in the root scope.
But again you can for instance the boxes we want we can say dot box and we can move these into here
since we're not going to be using these variables anywhere else except for the box scope right.
So if I save that that still works.
Now if I move the max width into the box that's not going to work.
So if I stretch to sell you'll see the max with doesn't work anymore because it's in the container.
I could put this in the container scope like I could do dot container and put that in.
But that's something I would I'd keep in the room.
OK.
Because it's like a main just a main part of the site.
All right.
So that's pretty much it.
Guys I mean like I said I mostly use it for primary and secondary colors things like widths but.
Yeah we'll be we'll be using variables throughout the coming projects and that's it.
I will see you in the next video.